1.Minimising material consumption
1.1.Minimise material consumption during pre-production and production
Design for minimum material use
Design for material efficiency
Design for material substitution
Design for material reduction
Design for material optimization
Design for material saving
Design for material minimization
1.2.Minimise material consumption during transportation and storage
Design for minimum weight
Design for minimum volume
1.3.Minimise material consumption during packaging
Avoid packaging
Design for minimum packaging material
Design for reusable packaging
1.4.Minimise material consumption during use
Design for more efficient consumption of operational materials
Design for more efficient use of maintenance materials
Engage digital support systems with dynamic configuration
Design variable material consumption systems for different operating requirements
Use of sensors to adjust material consumption to operational requirements
Set the product's default state at minimal materials consumption
Facilitate the user to reduce material consumption
1.5.Enable a variable consumption of materials, to follow demand fluctuations
Design for variable material consumption systems for different operating requirements
Use of sensors to adjust material consumption to operational requirements
Set the product's default state at minimal materials consumption
Facilitate the user to reduce material consumption
1.6.Minimise material consumption during the product development phase
Minimise the consumption of stationery goods and their packages
Engage digital tools in designing, modelling and prototyping
Engage digital tools for documentation, communication and presentation

2.Minimising energy consumption
2.1.Minimise energy consumption during pre-production and production
Design for minimum energy use in manufacturing
Design for energy efficient processes
Design for low temperature processes
Design for low pressure processes
Design for low speed processes
2.2.Minimise energy consumption during transportation and storage
Design for minimum weight for transport
Design for minimum volume for transport
Design for efficient storage
2.3.Select the most efficient energy consumption systems during use
Design for energy efficiency
Design for efficient energy conversion
Design for efficient energy transfer
Design for efficient insulation
2.4.Enable a variable consumption of energy, to follow demand fluctuations
Design variable energy consumption systems for different operating requirements
Use of sensors to adjust energy consumption to operational requirements
Set the product's default state at minimal energy consumption
Facilitate the user to reduce energy consumption
2.5.Minimise energy consumption during product development
Minimise the consumption of energy in prototyping
Engage digital tools in designing, modelling and prototyping
Engage digital tools for documentation, communication and presentation

3.Minimising toxic emissions
3.1.Minimise toxic emissions during pre-production and production
Are there any materials and/or additives in the product (system) that are recognized/classified as toxic/harmful and replaceable?
Are there any manufacturing, assembly, or finishing processes in the product (system) that are recognized/classified as toxic/harmful and replaceable?
Are there any materials and/or manufacturing processes in the packaging that are recognized/classified as toxic/harmful and replaceable?
Does the product (system) adopt disposal processes that are recognized/classified as toxic/harmful and replaceable?
3.2.Minimise toxic emissions during transportation and use
Are transport systems used for the product (system) that utilize energy resources and/or release emissions recognized/classified as toxic/harmful, and are they replaceable?
Does the product (system) in use adopt energy resources recognized/classified as toxic/harmful, and are they replaceable?

4.Maximising use of renewable resources
4.1.Maximise use of renewable materials
Is the product (system) manufactured using depleting and/or less renewable materials?
Is the packaging manufactured using depleting and/or less renewable materials?
Are the product (system) or any potentially compostable parts made of non-biodegradable materials?
4.2.Maximise use of renewable energy
Is part of the energy consumed during use produced from depleting and/or non-renewable energy sources (e.g., fossil fuels)?

5.Maximising product useful life
5.1.Design for durability
Does the product, or any of its components, have a short useful life?
5.2.Design for ease of maintenance and repair
Does the product, or any of its components, tend to become damaged, deteriorate, or break prematurely?
5.3.Design for upgradability
Does the product, or any of its components, tend to become technologically obsolete?
5.4.Design for adaptability
Is the product, or any of its components, difficult to store, maintain, repair, and/or upgrade?
5.5.Design for sharing
Is the product, or any of its components, single-use (excluding consumable products)?
5.6.Design for multi-functionality
Is the product, or any of its components, used individually when it could be shared?
5.7.Design for emotional durability
Does the product, or any of its components, tend to become culturally or aesthetically obsolete?
5.8.Design for intensity of use
Does the product, or any of its components, tend not to be used for extended periods?

6.Maximising material recycling and recovery
6.1.Design for disassembly
Does the (system) product generate large amounts of waste destined for landfill/incineration at the end of its life cycle?
6.2.Design for material purity
Do some/all pre-production and/or production wastes end up in landfill/incineration?
6.3.Design for material identification
Do some/all wastes produced during use end up in landfill/incineration?
6.4.Design for recycling infrastructure
Does part/all of the packaging end up in landfill/incineration?
6.5.Design for material recovery
No question founded
6.6.Design for material reuse
No question founded
6.7.Design for material recycling
No question founded
6.8.Design for composting
No question founded

7.Minimising environmental impact of the system
7.1.Design for local production
7.2.Design for local consumption
7.3.Design for local distribution
7.4.Design for local maintenance
7.5.Design for local end-of-life
7.6.Design for local resource use
7.7.Design for local energy use
7.8.Design for local water use